This is Jockel Podcast number 147 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening, Echo. Good evening.
And it's been a little while since we've done some Q&A. So we're gonna do some Q&A. Cool. Thanks to everyone for the question.
Yes, that you have submitted to the podcast. Just to remind you, what's the best way to submit a question?
The best way is Twitter or Facebook. And yeah, those are the best way to do your Facebook.
My Facebook or my Twitter. I don't. The Instagram messages are just out of control. There's too many of them. And I appreciate it.
But I can't get a grip on them. So Twitter and people, what if it's a long question? Well, right, three Twitter statements. If it's longer than, you know, that many characters. It's probably then go to Facebook. If it's like really a long, long thing, then just go to Facebook.
And send me the message. What does that call a Facebook message?
Instant Messenger Direct Message. I think DM is like a content.
Okay. Anyway, message or call on Facebook is what I get.
Again, I apologize. I don't get to respond to all of them. So I'm just trying to get somebody a little like, hey, I read it. Hey, thanks.
You know, you know what to do. Right? A lot of times people, they're just asking me because they want to get confirmed.
Yeah, yeah, you know, I do think I'm having problems with this girl and she cheated on me. But I don't know if I should leave or not.
You know what to do, bro. You know what to do. Yeah. So speaking of, thanks for everyone for the questions.
And and that being said, I still look at just about everything that comes in. Sometimes sometimes they get a little bit lost. But I look at everything that comes in.
Sometimes people, if you're listening, if you send me a question, some people ask me a question that I've literally been asked and we've answered on the podcast three or four times.
So keep listening to the podcast because if I don't say anything most likely, it's because I've answered that over.
I've answered it two or three times.
Or you can do what to do just from listening to the podcast. You'll figure out, oh, I need to go get after it. Like.
Yeah, when in Delco, I think that it might be a good idea to have like a what are you going to call frequently asked.
Yeah, I know. I know.
But we do need to do that.
Yeah.
So let's do it.
Check.
First question.
We said that for like two years.
Yeah, I didn't write when I said that I'll say.
Yeah.
No.
No, do 10 Debbie put together like a whole thing on that. Maybe. Yeah, she did. So we could probably dig that up and actually put it to use.
Yeah.
Which would be smart.
Yes, sir. I believe.
I believe the same thing.
First question.
Do you have any thoughts on what disciplines someone can use to improve their decision-making skills as a leader?
Not only in keeping clarity of thought during high-pressored situations and environments,
but also in making the correct decisions when it is vital.
Okay. So we talked about this last week.
You have to learn to detach and how do you learn to detach by putting yourself in stressful situations and then observing how you react.
So good stressful situations to put yourself in.
Well, what makes you stressed one thing that will make everyone stressed especially when they first start is start with you.
You get to that's going to that's going to put you in stressful environments.
Look at sports.
What are you going to do?
You know, put yourself in stressful positions and sports.
What else makes you stressed?
Public speaking.
Right? Public speaking makes some people really stressed out.
Start doing it more.
What about competition shooting where you've got a or hunting where you've got to do something in a stressful environment or
archery. You know, I started archery recently.
You did.
Yeah.
And so that's one of those things where you've got to learn to detach,
you're going to learn to pay attention to things that are going on.
If you're all caught up in the moment, then you're going to miss it.
So that's number one.
If you want to learn to deal with stress, put yourself in stressful situations that are under some kind of control.
You know, even something like paintball, you know,
we do gigs at echelon front when we put people through what we call FTX's,
where you go out and you're going to fire.
We usually use airsoft because it's a little bit more.
It's a little easier to work with.
But actually what we started using now is we've got things high end laser tag guns.
And so that's that's what we use and they are super effective.
They're they're awesome.
They're awesome training tools.
Like if we were to have them, if we would have if they would have existed,
when I was in the sealed teams, I would have used them then because they're that good.
So we use those and we put people in stressful situation.
Go hit this target.
There's bad guys.
You know, people are going to get shot.
There's people yelling.
Put yourself in stressful situations and learn to detach.
Put yourself in stressful situations with the purpose of learning to detach and
stepping back mentally to figure out what's going on.
Okay.
That's first part.
Next part is how do we make good decisions?
Well, number one, making correct decisions.
You've got a study.
You've got to know and understand.
You've got to know the background.
You've got to know the historical outcomes of
the equivalent type decisions that have happened in the past similar situations.
And if you know the history and you know the background,
then you can use those to assess the current situation you're in.
And then once you assess the decisions that you can make assess the possible actions that you can take
and then assess the outcomes that those decisions will have.
Those actions will have.
And when you're doing that, you also have to assess the possibilities of inaction.
So a lot of times people forget that one.
They don't know if they should do A or B.
What they forget is there's also what if I don't do either.
What's going to happen?
Sometimes not doing either is good.
Most that were a lot of times not doing either is bad.
So you've got A or B. What should you do?
Maybe sometimes you got to pick A or B.
Sometimes occasionally it's better not to do anything.
And you wait and let the situation develop a little bit more.
So the point of this is whatever you can know beforehand, you know.
You learn, you study, you understand.
You know the standard operating procedures.
You know what variants variations have been made on the standard operating procedures.
And that's how you go forward.
And you execute now the thing that you have to remember is that you can't know everything before hand.
Which is why it goes back to study and practice, detaching and making decisions.
So now let me dig into detachable a bit.
Let's actually break that down.
Maybe some mechanical steps that you can use.
Number one step back.
But literally physically take a step back from the situation that you're in and move your head and look around.
So when we used to shoot, they would teach us to scan.
Like you would have to physically move your head.
And what that is is a mental reminder that you need to look around and assess what's happening.
So once you've taken a step off the line,
whether that's taken a step back from the table and you're meeting.
If you're a firefighter and there's a fire happening,
take a step back so you can see the bigger picture.
If you're in a cop and there's a shoot out happening, where can you go to step back,
get some cover and look around and see what's actually happening.
If you're in a conversation with someone, stop talking.
If there's an argument going on, stop talking, take a step back and actually listen to all the other elements that are shouting and yelling at each other.
If there's a decision that needs to be made,
an planning situation, step back from the plan.
Don't just take a step back from it.
Look at it more broadly.
So that step number one is to step back.
Number two, then you're going to come up with, hey, one of the possible decisions that I can make.
I go this way.
I go ABD, ABCD.
I can do any one of these things.
Keep an open mind.
This is the problem some people have.
They come up with two decisions, three decisions, and they don't think about anything else.
So you kind of have to like repeatedly detach.
You kind of have to stay detached.
That's why it's good.
You throw out an idea like for planning for something.
And I come up with three ideas.
I say, echo, what do you think of these?
I give them to you then I step back again.
I keep my mind open.
So that's why the more you can get your subordinates to plan, the better off you're going to be.
The more you can get, the people below you in the chain of command to come up with an idea,
or come up with the ideas, the better off you're going to be because you're not embroiled in it.
You're, you're de facto detached because you're letting them run with it.
Then, okay, once you look at your decisions and you got to look at what the possible outcomes are.
What are the possible things that can happen?
Is this could, how bad could this go?
Risk versus reward.
You got to weigh those things out and you got to do it fairly quickly.
And again, you got to figure out what's the result or possible outcome for inaction.
And then you just weigh out these various options that you've created and you figure which one, which outcome has the most, which one makes the most sense.
That's, that's what's good.
And like I said, inaction is some people like any action is better than no action.
Not always true, not always true.
Sometimes you can learn more by letting things develop and letting things reveal what the status is.
So that does make sense and sometimes you do hold off.
If, if you, if you can see that a problem is getting worse though,
Well, then we got to do something.
Then generally, okay, let's make some kind of an decision very quickly.
Now, one of the most important things to remember, and there's a little dichotomy to this,
is that you don't always have to make giant decisions.
You don't always have to make the, all, the, the all, powerful,
decision of might.
You know, it's like, do we go or do we not go?
You don't always have to say we go.
So I'm not even going, well, let's push a little further.
Let's, let's move a little bit further before we make that decision.
Or hey, let's stay where we are and see if it develops or let's back up a little bit and keep watching.
So instead of we go or we don't go, there's actually a bunch of different decisions that you can make besides we can go or don't go.
There's a building, there's a bad guy in it, let's go or let's not go.
No, actually, let's put eyes on the target for a little while.
Let's, let's call and see if there's any other intelligence.
Let's put a aircraft over there.
There's all kinds of decisions that you can make.
Let's push a little bit closer.
Let's stage.
Let's monitor.
So there's all kinds of decisions that you can make that allow the, the situation to develop further and maybe reveal the proper decision to you in the long run.
So my, my fear of saying that is that people be get paralyzed.
What does it analyze the parallel, parallel, parallel, parallel, yeah analysis paralysis.
That's my fear about saying that because the dichotomy is you can sit around and analyze and figure out and look at something for, forever.
While the situation changes and now you lose.
So yes, you don't have to make giant decisions, but at the same time, you got to be decisive.
There's a dichotomy.
Yeah. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Leadership is not easy.
Road all book about it. dichotomy leadership. Why? Because that's what happens.
So there you go.
That's my assessment of how you can prove your decision making skills.
Experience goes away.
Yes.
Yeah, that's one of those just kind of when you're talking about the, the results versus the, the, the method, right decision making,
sometimes like the result actually both method and results kind of the value isn't even in the results.
It's like you haven't getting that experience going through it, you know, it'll improve your decision making.
True. True.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Anytime you can be in a situation where you're making decisions and getting experience out,
you're going to get better at it.
Yeah.
Kind of the value in role playing.
That is a value.
That's why we do a lot of role playing in our role.
Kind of like a little thing.
And people might think like, oh, that how does that work? Come and get it.
I watch people all the time.
It totally improve as leaders because put them through role plays scenario as a leader,
where they're going up against a combative subordinate or a subordinate that's lazy or a subordinate that's angry or a subordinate that that wants to leave.
Like you put a person role playing in those situations over and over again and they get so much better three iterations.
Three iterations and people are exponentially better at handling such a lot of things.
Yeah.
Because it's like someone, I mean, most of the time,
and it was just a matter of them like never seen it before.
And then for you know, when it's in the during game time,
it's kind of like you got to make the decision super fast.
You can't and a,
and a,
from the role playing situation,
you can analyze, you do whatever and then learn it.
No, that's a good one.
I actually should have brought that up.
That's a great point is another way that you can get better at making decisions by role play.
For sure.
Give yourself the options.
Put, put your set set yourself up a pressure situation and have people role play it out with you of what you're going to do.
Yeah.
So it's kind of like like mock that.
That's basically, it is, it is mock experience.
That's basically what seal training well,
not the basics.
He was running, but the seal training that I ran, that's basically what it was.
We're going to have people act like bad guys and you're going to make decisions all day long.
That's a role play.
Yeah.
Get some.
Like remember, and again, going back to like just seen it once.
All right.
It's a good time.
It's a way bigger difference than then.
I mean, compared with never seen it all versus seen it once.
The difference between that is way bigger than seen it twice versus once.
You know, if you seen it once, it's kind of like, okay, now yeah, this is like 90 day.
It's 90 day.
The difference between knowledge and like, no, no knowledge is crazy.
Yeah.
And we see that over and over and over again.
Like on Indiana Jones and Alaska Crusade, everything now.
I'm pretty sure, how old is that one?
Like I saw the, like that series when I was a kid.
I think I see it.
So at the end, they go through.
I had to see things, right?
They're like these booby traps, right?
They get the holy grail.
That's what they're doing.
Oh, then I've seen this one because everyone the guys face melts, right?
No, that's really the last time.
When they open the arc.
Oh, yeah.
Shut your eyes.
Yeah.
It's old school.
Anyway, no, this one, they have to go through these, like,
these tests or whatever.
They're there booby traps to get to the holy grail.
And one of them was you have to kneel.
Only the penitent man will pass.
That's what it says in the grail diary, which is Indiana Jones Dad's diary that
took up a note and so he's like, oh, you got to interpret that, right?
So they had all these of people.
They were bad guys there too.
So they just send to someone in there.
And then the guide go in and his head gets chopped though.
So you go in there.
You know, hey, that blade is going to come chopped off my head because I
seen that one guy get his head chopped off.
I'm just going to duck.
It's one time it's like I don't know.
The blade's going to come out.
Duck.
Good point.
Thanks, Indie.
Grand, granted there was more booby traps.
And you kind of got to refer to the grail diary for the answers.
Subject to interpretation by the way, but same deal.
You see the point, all right?
If you walk through a hall, I get it.
Yes.
It is chopped off.
You know, okay, a better duck.
No, you best duck.
Yeah, I get it.
Thank you.
One time.
That's all it takes.
Anyway, next question.
How do you practice normal face?
So same and the reason I grew up these two questions together is because
there's a little, there's some similarities there.
You know, how do you practice normal face, which is a legitimate skill, by the way.
Yes, sure.
It's, it's, oh, it's funny little game.
If you haven't heard of what you do as I used to do, my kids, I put line
them up.
I'm a professional whatsoever besides just a normal plane face.
I'd hit him in the head with a, the inside cardboard roll up of a wrapping paper.
So there's the game.
And it's a lot of fun.
We'd have fun doing it in everyone's life.
Well, it's also useful in this adult to be able to not show your emotions.
So how do you do it?
Same thing.
Put yourself in stressful situations.
And, you know, a good one is jujitsu.
Do you do?
If you can just like act normal, even when someone's just crushing you,
then that's a positive thing.
Like, you know, sometimes you and I are rolling.
Yes.
And you'll be like, oh, I've found a sense of urgency.
That's when I lose normal face.
It's failure to, keep normal face.
So I get a little bit scrambled because you're going to pass or something like that.
And then you, you then you feel all good.
Yeah.
Because you have me react.
You broke my normal face.
So yes, that's good.
I would say the thing about normal face is practice at all times.
You know where you practice it.
You practice it like when you're driving.
I mean, I don't can't do this anymore.
But when we started this podcast, I would get put questions all the time about road rage.
How do you prevent road rage?
How do you get everyone's so in the game now that they're, they figured it out.
Yeah.
But that's a good, you know, any time where there's something bad happening, like something annoying,
something like the line, the line at the DMV, the line wherever.
And you just just just keep normal face and just act like whatever.
Detach.
And you'll just act normal.
Easy money.
Indue.
Don't act hired.
Yeah.
That's like one of my, I try and maintain that rule all the time.
You taught me that.
Oh, I don't even know if you meant to teach me that.
And I told the story before.
But I rolled it right here to get it.
That's it.
You weed rule.
And I'd be tired of whatever after rolling with you.
And then, you know, and people do this all the time.
And it sticks it.
It's like a red flag to me.
Not a red flag warning of not, it just sticks out a lot when people do this.
After the round, they'll just flop on their back.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, like breathing all hard kind of just, you know, indicating that.
Oh, that was a tiring round.
Right?
You think, yeah, you need to have tiring rounds.
Like, again, it kind of thing.
This is the message that you conveyed to me through your actions.
You didn't tell me this, but through you.
So I roll with you and I do that or something along those lines.
Oh, and you like stand up.
Not breathing through your mouth.
I remember that.
You're just like, you know, like, month close.
And then you were looking at me.
Almost like you're disappointed in me.
I was.
Yeah, I know you were.
Now thinking back, yes, I realized you probably were.
And you said, you look a little tired.
And then you just walked away.
Mm-hmm.
Like, man.
Almost like that was the bad part.
The part that I looked tired.
That was like the bad part.
You didn't like, can I was like, from literally from then on,
I had act like I wasn't tired in between.
Even if I was tired, I've tried to act like I'm not tired actively.
That's so important.
Mm-hmm.
It's important in life.
Yeah.
You know, it's important as a leader.
It's way more important as a leader than anything else.
When you start to break, think, well, I don't know if you have an example.
But like, I think of times in my life where I would see my leader start to break.
Mm-hmm.
And just think, the cow horrible that is for the rest of the team.
And I'd be looking at a leader that was breaking.
And I'd be like, man, you aren't letting everyone down.
And you're not going to do it to me.
I'm going to, you know what, actually, this is an opportunity for me.
If you're looking weak, I'm not going to get all aggressive.
But I'm going to make sure that people aren't going to follow that attitude.
Because that attitude is going to hurt us all.
Yeah.
So as a leader, normal face is even more important.
I'm not saying you never show emotions.
This dichotomy.
I'm not saying never show emotions as a leader.
Because you absolutely do show emotions as a leader.
But you make sure that they're controlled.
You make sure they're not the most negative emotions.
Yeah.
So am I saying to not be yourself?
Yes, I am.
Because if your self is being a weak loser and you're in charge of a team and you show everyone that, you're wrong.
No, you need to stifle those emotions, which we've talked about before.
You need to stifle those.
You need to act.
You need to act like, hey, we're going to make this happen.
Yeah.
This doesn't mean lie to them.
This isn't like, hey, the boat sinking, but don't worry.
It's going to be okay.
No, hey, guess what?
Boat sinking.
No, we're going to do.
We're going to break out of life.
Jack is going to farm into pool. We're going to grab whatever we can off this festival.
We're going to make sure we get some, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Has opposed to the boat sinking.
Right.
Yeah.
So you lead.
Jack.
So if, um, what, like, when your kid falls down, right?
Yeah, totally.
Totally.
Like, yeah, you know what my gosh, are you okay?
Yeah, I'm right.
Negative over there.
Yeah.
Wait, how's it?
I was at the park.
My son too.
Climes up high on this thing is like, slanted jungle gym kind of thing is just slanted.
Like, pretty high.
Where's not like so high that he shouldn't be up there.
It's not that.
But it's, it's high where you got to keep an eye on that thing right there.
And sure enough, he takes a step or whatever and just straight up falls to the ground.
And the ground is, ah, the ground was like a bunch of this weird hay kind of stuff.
So it's, it wasn't like concrete, put it that way.
But he fell down, full on.
And the kind of, you know, kind of other parents are looking in my life is sitting right
me kind of far away.
We had a gravity.
And my daughter was there.
She's super caring too.
So I'm like, I should have grabbed her too, but she's far away.
Anyway, so he falls down.
Of course, it doesn't cry.
It's more like surprise and stun and looking around.
Almost with the look on his face like, how should I react right now?
Yeah, that's exactly what he's doing.
Yeah.
And then it's all good.
I mean, I'm not reacting.
Yeah.
So I mean, I mean, when I'm, my kids would take a day.
My kids would take a day.
I'd start laughing.
You know, that was awesome.
Yeah, yeah, makes sense.
And then they're like, really?
Yeah.
That was awesome.
We got a little scanner.
Nice.
Oh, look, you're bleeding.
Yeah.
That's going to leave a cool scar.
You're awesome.
Welcome to the club.
Yeah.
That's a good one.
Like, so like, that's awesome.
Yeah.
Oh, we like, oh, I stand up strong.
Pripyat.
Kind of like you got to beat it and, like, show me how strong you are kind of thing.
Oh, I did that the other day.
Oh, nonetheless.
Yeah.
So he got up and he didn't cry.
Of course he does.
He has a high ass fall to injury.
He landed correctly.
How many feet?
Oh, like, it was taller than I stand.
So we're talking to seven feet.
Like, seven.
Six.
Yeah.
Okay.
Over.
Yeah.
It was, it was solid.
But he landed good.
Like, if he would have landed on his head, that's an injury straight up.
Yeah.
But he, sure.
He felt like good, which is lucky.
But yeah, nonetheless.
So yeah.
If I were to, oh, gosh.
Oh, it, like, ran over there or something like this.
Oh, yeah.
It would have jammed him up.
Isn't that why they airline pilots when you get turbulence?
They're like, hey, everybody just going and buckle your seat belts for, my feel a little
bit more than, you know, instead of, hey guys, you know, we're going to repel
that.
We're going.
Yeah.
I very much appreciate that when we do that by the way.
All right.
So I ask questions.
Next question.
I tell the team, we need this done by three PM.
They say, got it.
We'll have it done by three PM.
But they don't do it every time and tell me, well, we didn't know we needed it done by
three PM.
How do I take ownership of this?
Yeah.
This seems like a tough question, right?
But it's actually not that tough of a question.
Because what you think is like, well, they say they were going to get it done, then
then they didn't get it done, then how can that be my fault?
And maybe that's not how the question is meant.
But that's the way I'm interpreting it for the purpose of this answer.
Sure.
Because maybe you just meant like, hey, how do I take ownership of this?
And if that's the way you meant it fine, they answer the same actually.
So what happens is, if if if it happens with what happens is, if that happens with your team,
then you take ownership of it by recognizing that you did not communicate effectively.
Because if your team isn't doing what it is you need them to do, that is actually your fault as the team leader.
They either didn't understand how important it was, or they didn't understand how solid that deadline was.
Or they didn't understand that when you said this thing needs to be completed by three o'clock,
that you meant completed by three o'clock, maybe it's because you usually say, hey,
we need this done tomorrow at two and you give them slack and they just kind of take advantage of it.
blah blah blah blah.
Then, you know, if you want to take ownership of it,
maybe you didn't follow up enough, right?
Maybe you trusted them too much.
Who's fault as if you trusted them so much that you just let them, you showed up at two,
fifty nine is it done? Well, no, we didn't think it was due, like we didn't know you needed it.
Action.
So who's fault as that? It's your fault. You trusted them too much.
Maybe you gave them too much leeway, right?
Maybe you gave them too much leeway.
Too much decentralized command.
Dicotta, me leadership.
Maybe you went too far with decentralized command. You said, hey, get this done by three o'clock.
Figure out how everyone want to do it.
I'll be back at two, fifty nine and you roll out and it's not done.
So what do you do?
You come back at three o'clock.
It's not done. It is your fault.
Do you take ownership of it? You say to your team, look, hey, okay, so how do you take ownership of it?
Cool. You fix the problem. How do you fix the problem in this case?
Well, guess what? Next time I tell you something's done at three o'clock,
I'm going to check in with you.
I'm going to check in with you a few times.
Here's the progress that we want to make.
I want you to be here by this point.
And that puts a soundtrack to finish well ahead of three o'clock.
So let's make it happen.
Are you going to micromanage a little bit more? Yes, you are.
They missed a deadline. You're not allowed to miss deadlines.
Not allowed to miss deadlines. Do I micromanage you echo trust?
No. Have you ever missed a deadline?
No.
Well, there's been some podcasts that didn't come out on time.
Right?
Yeah, I guess they've been launched.
I guess, but yeah.
There's been some podcasts that didn't come out on time.
Yes.
And I would send you a text like, hey, just wondering if you knew about a podcast that was, you know,
supposed to come out five hours ago.
That happened one time.
Well, no, two times.
I think it's happened two times.
Yeah.
One of them.
So you don't warrant micromanagement because you, we've done a hundred and forty seven podcasts.
And you've had two that were now on time.
Do I need a micromanage you?
No, I don't.
Don't need to.
Because we're all good.
The podcast, hey, occasionally the times that they didn't come out.
One of them was like straight up operator error.
Where you were like, I didn't press the button publisher, something really lame like that.
Yeah.
The other time was like, major technical difficulty.
We got a problem.
Yeah.
It's going to be a couple days.
Then there was another time.
What was the other time?
When we went to Maine the first last year.
And what happened?
We just got there on the night that I was supposed to publish it.
My mind was just distracted by the new.
I had lost my camera.
It was a crazy time for everybody.
Yeah.
And, you know, the next morning, you so, you know,
graciously posted a picture of me sleeping on the plane.
By the way.
And said, maybe someone can do it.
Could have published a podcast publicly, which is complete violation by the way.
Yeah.
Take picture of me sleeping.
But hey, the more having fun.
Yeah.
It was actually completely warranted because it really captured like what it felt like.
I just totally spaced it out.
So my point is you get stuff done on time.
Yeah.
You have a good track record.
There's no need for micro management.
If you were, if you were hitting a lower number,
you know, if every, you know, once every once a month, it wasn't on time,
you'd be hearing about it all the time for me.
I'm like, hey, we good tomorrow.
We good.
I'd be checking in with you until you got so mad at me following up with you.
You would just be like, hey, I got this and you would never miss it again
because you didn't want to be bothered.
So for this one, again, it's important to remember that with the idea of extreme ownership.
It's not just like, oh, I'll say this is my fault.
No, when you're in charge of a team and something goes wrong,
it actually is your fault.
It actually is your fault.
And that's all there is to it.
Maybe there's some people you need to fire because they are the,
they're at fault for this mistake happening and you've let it go too long and you didn't get rid of them.
That's your fault.
Yeah.
But it actually is your fault.
How do you take on, how do you take on a ship of it?
You fix the problem.
Maybe you got a, in this particular case,
maybe you got to step up the micro management.
That's, that's the way it works.
Yeah, it makes sense.
Also to the, well,
I mean, I'm speaking from a perspective of someone who could very well easily space out this project by 3pm.
By the way, that's potentially me.
But this is, this is when it can happen,
where, let's say I get a list of like, two thing, three things, whatever, I got to do.
Right.
Okay, we, you know, we want this or whatever.
And then, let's say it's not necessarily by 3pm.
Let's say it's like by next week Friday.
So I got, we can have to do these three things.
And then the next day, there's like another list of two things.
Then the next day after that, one thing says, hey, you know what?
This is the priority three days later after this been established.
Hey, this is the priority.
Get this done first.
Then you got one more thing.
All right.
So this thing that I said, yeah, got it.
I'll have it done by Friday kind of thing.
Sort of get shuffled and forgot, you know, like,
forgotten.
So maybe I didn't organize it.
What's your point in saying this?
I just put yourself on report.
Yeah.
And then that you need to make a list.
Are you saying you need to write things down?
People that miss things, you know, you do your right.
I'm down.
I used to make little boxes.
I'll show you some of the checklist.
You come to my house.
I'll show you checklists.
I used to make there.
They were psycho OCD.
Little checklist.
Little boxes next to like I would be going on a trip.
I would make a little box.
Socks t-shirts.
Oh, you know, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, everything.
Every single thing I was taken.
I would have on a list.
I still got those.
I got to points from the 90s of what I took on the
and that's pretty legit right there.
Little boxes, little boxes.
In the 90s, they were written down on paper.
Then in the 2000s, I got that computer.
Cool.
And I print those things out.
No.
So hey, yeah, people have problems.
If you personally are telling me that you have a problem,
you got to write something down.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
And obviously, you know, mean you're different.
I don't know how those kind of notes.
But what I'm saying is,
uh, yeah, like that could be your methodology of your micro,
quote unquote micro management style for things like that.
Well, for things like this, just make sure they got it kind of thing.
Like if, for sure.
Yeah, for sure.
The things I'm thinking about.
In fact, you can, you can give lists.
I normally wouldn't have to do this.
But sometimes there's been a couple times in my life and career.
What I'd have to give people a list.
Like, hey, I think the box is for him.
Like, hey, here's what you got to get done today.
Yeah.
Make sure we understand each other.
I would only do that if they drop the ball a couple times.
Yeah.
Like, oh, they didn't get this done.
They didn't get that done.
Okay, guess what?
I need to write it down.
Make sure it happens.
So yeah, and again, it's not like, and I'm not saying,
it's not my fault because you give me too much.
I'm not saying that.
I'm saying like, not everyone, me.
I'm talking about me.
Not everyone's as organized as maybe you.
You know, so they're going to need some micro management in this particular way.
You know, maybe because maybe that's it.
I mean, I think the tone here, the question could be me.
Totally could be me mystery.
Yeah.
But it kind of seems like, hey, they said they got it.
And they didn't get it.
What more do you want from me kind of thing?
You know, I think that's good.
We're putting it.
And then I just gave the list of what more you can do.
Yeah, you can spell it out for them.
You can micro manage.
You can check and do check ends with them.
Do all those things.
Yeah.
And then there you go.
Next question.
You must have strong feelings about current events and politics.
Generally, given your experience, yet you remain silent on this issue.
Why?
To appeal to a larger audience, or the soldiers mentality of not criticizing the commander
in chief, is that why?
Do I have strong feelings on current events and politics?
Sure.
I do.
But they're more broad.
So I have very strong broad feelings on current events and politics.
I am a patriotic person.
I believe very strongly in individual freedoms of human beings.
I believe in having a very strong military.
I believe in having a small government.
So I have strong feelings about those things.
However, I don't have strong feelings about the nonsense and micro dramas that are on the 24-hour
news cycle that are just constant social media.
Just constant things.
And we talked about this last podcast.
Things that don't matter.
There's so much of the current events don't really matter in the big picture to me or even to the country.
And I was on Ben Shapirocho.
He was, I basically said, look, like, like, overall Americans have sort of the same goals.
And he said, I don't know if I believe that.
And I said, well, I work with all kinds of companies with people all over the country.
And the people that I like Ben Shapiro, here's from, he's just, he's just bombarded by the
extremes on both sides 24 hours a day.
I don't want to be in that position of getting bombarded by these extremes 24 hours a day.
I said, Ben, you're right.
There are some people in the country that believe the far left or the far right.
I said, most people are concerned about their life and doing a good job and building their business or
you know, patting down their mortgage.
That's what they're concerned about.
And so they're not like freaking out about the little, every little micro drama that gets unleashed into the press and social media every single day.
And so, so why do I not join into that?
Because I don't want to join into that.
And also, I don't want to make a podcast.
I don't want to spend all my time making a podcast that's out of date the day it comes out.
But I don't want to invest my time in that.
I don't want to.
And guess what?
There's literally giant multi billion dollar news media outlets and guess what they do.
That's what they do all day.
They make a story about this thing and that thing and this thing, I can't react fast enough.
It's just dumb.
So, if we were to be talking about current events, then by the time the podcast comes out, the current event has been over.
Some people are listening to this podcast and it's it's 2000 and 22 right now.
Right now, someone is listening to this podcast right now and it's 2022.
No, there's there's no topic of current events that we could talk about,
Rare or Barely any that actually impact what's happening for years from now.
People, I meet people every day now.
I meet people that are that say, hey, oh man, I've been listening to podcasts.
I'm on 28.
That's that's two years ago, right?
That's two years ago.
What was the current events two years ago?
They were totally different than they are now.
So, so there's that.
So that's why little current events thing as far as appealing to a larger audience that part of the question.
Well, if my goal was to appeal to a larger audience, then I think I actually would talk about this.
I actually would talk about the trendy stories of the day and put out little little clips of sound bites of all this stuff.
And instead of instead of doing what I do now, which is to read a hundred year old out of print books.
But that's a great way to build an audience or let's talk about the Rwandan genocide.
Let's talk about the Holocaust or let's talk about the rape and an king or let's talk about the me lie masker.
That ought to build a great audience.
So, so the idea that, oh, I'm trying to build a larger audience.
It's like, no, actually people that want to listen to this want to listen to it.
I'm not trying to, I'm not trying to build an audience by manipulating what I'm thinking about.
No, I'm actually I'm talking about and I'm diving into what I find important and what I think I can learn from.
And I get more out of this podcast than anybody.
I mean, I know a lot of people say, oh, I've got a lot from your podcast.
I get more out of it than anybody because I get to dive deep into this stuff and
really look at it.
So, no, it's not they trying to appeal to a larger audience.
In fact, if I want a larger audience, I do exactly what you're talking about.
As far as the soldiers mentality of not criticizing the commander and chief,
if I actually don't agree, I don't agree that that's a soldiers mentality.
And I don't believe that it should be a soldiers mentality.
The soldier should question their leadership.
And now should they do it tactfully?
Absolutely.
Because I don't want to be surrounded by Yesman.
That's wrong.
Also, if you, what am I trying, this is just a general leadership principle.
What have I said a thousand times on this podcast?
I'm trying to build a relationship with a person above me and the chain of command.
So, when I was in the military, if I wanted to have influence over my boss,
over my commander and chief, what I outwardly criticize them and make them think, oh,
this guy just doesn't like me.
I'm going to take my first chance to get rid of them or not promote it.
No, I'm actually going to play the game.
And I'm going to look and say, okay, boss, hey, I see what you're doing here.
I want to support what you're doing, but does this make sense?
Can we do it a different way?
So I'm trying to build a relationship with my boss up the chain of command.
I'm not trying to ostracize them by making them look bad or by openly criticizing my boss in,
in, you know, in the open.
Because what have I done?
Is my boss going to listen to me?
No.
Actually, my boss is going to listen to me at all.
So I don't want to be surrounded by yes, man.
But at the same time, if someone's making a bad decision, if someone's doing something that's a moral or a legal,
I'll call him out on all day long.
Now, the other thing that happens here is this is a new world and it's a buy.
And this is a binary world of sound bites.
That's what we've done.
We've created this binary world of sound bites.
When most answers that you want to give as a human being aren't one sentence or two sentence on the far left or far right or far light or far dark.
Like there's going to be, you have to explain things a little bit more.
And what when you take these binary sound bites, everyone's immediately thrown into an extreme category on the far left or the far right.
And it's soon.
And here's the bad part.
Here's the really bad part.
As soon as you get thrown into one of those camps, then the other camp stops listening to you completely.
They stop listening to you anything you say.
So you could you could make a great point.
But if you're on the other side, doesn't matter.
No one's listening.
They don't want to hear it.
Because you're on the other side, you're the enemy.
It's a binary world.
You're either with me or against me and there's no in between.
So that's kind of what we've created.
And what I would rather do is have people actually listen to what I say broadly and make their own choices rather than me trying to force an opinion down their throat.
This is the way it is.
This is the way it should be.
And by the way, just like leadership, you can't force people.
You can't force an opinion down someone throat.
You can't.
It'll work for 30 seconds.
It'll work for five minutes and it'll work for five days and leadership's isn't yet.
You better do what I say.
My way is right.
Eventually, you that kind of leadership does not work.
And it's the same thing with trying to force an opinion down someone's throat throat.
If you listen to what I'm saying, you can form your own opinion.
And I would rather have you do that because that's going to be stronger than some opinion that I tried to force down your throat.
Which doesn't work by the way.
So I would rather people listen to me and not just sound bikes and see where I'm coming from holistically and see where they can agree and disagree and see what feedback they give me.
Because by the way, I could be wrong about something which I have no problem with.
But I would rather do that.
I would rather have that approach than join the pack, whichever pack that is joined the pack on the street and bark loudly like the rest of the dogs.
I have no interest in doing that.
So there you go.
Okay.
Thank you, girl.
Yeah. And it's funny, man.
You're like one of the few people who, I mean, I, you know, like that.
Hold to me to sum that up.
I mean, I've heard that before or where someone would be like, hey, I'm, you know, I'm like this one.
But it's so very, it's so few people that actually do that the way the way you do even in real life, like in real life.
Like you, you don't even want political stuff will come up.
It's real obvious that you didn't jump into any specific group.
So well, this, this really ties back to last week's podcast of getting involved in things that don't matter.
And there is, there is just so much out there that doesn't matter.
Now, where you have to be careful is that that, that there's so many things that don't matter.
But what I am not saying that little things don't matter.
You see what I'm saying?
There's a huge disparity between those two things.
A lot of things that don't matter. What I am not saying is that little things don't matter.
Because there are little things that do matter.
And the classic example that we brought up over and over again on this podcast is like, oh, the Russian soldiers not shaving in Chechnya.
And how that led to their, eventually, okay, not going to shave.
Now we're not going to clean our weapons now, but now we're not going to stay awake on a watch.
Now we're not going to execute the missions we're being told to do now we're getting beat.
There are little things that matter.
If I'm barking all day long about things that don't matter, then we have a problem.
We have a problem. Now I'll tell you something else.
There's been some issues that have come up lately.
There is one issue that I was going to address on the podcast, but
And I still might address it because it's a small problem that I see as being a more significant problem.
And if it continues down the road, but luckily, at this point,
there's there's a whole pack of dogs barking about it.
It wasn't like, it wasn't like I noticed this problem, no one else saw it.
It was like I noticed this problem, so did millions of other people.
And they all those dogs start barking. Okay, so now what am I going to do?
It's a park with them. It's like, okay, now if there comes a time where all of a sudden I realize there's one of these small things that matter or a big things that matter.
That I don't see getting the traction that it needs.
Well, then I will absolutely say, hey, this is what I think about this situation.
Generally, there's so many people barking.
And they're barking about the same thing. They're barking about a lot of things that don't matter.
They're barking about some things that matter.
And right now, unless I mean, what do I say all the time, unless you speak to more people listen?
Yeah. So if I want to give my opinion on the daily news every hour on the hour, no one's listening to anything I've got to say.
And then it's a waste. It's a waste of my time because there's more important things.
When we can when we can dive into human nature through the lens of war, through the lens of leadership through the war of a trust, if we can learn and teach people about the past so that we can prevent it from happening in the future.
That to me is infinitely more impactful than barking about some current event that's happening that's going to be gone in a week.
It's amazing how fast stuff comes up on the raiders.
All of the headlines and in a week it's gone in a week it's gone.
Yeah.
So I'm just not going to play that game. I don't.
There's no point in doing it.
That's a really good way to put it. It's like these current events. Most of the time seem to be shaped in a way to just for dogs to bark about.
You know, like that's what it is. I can't.
And then they bark in the next thing.
You know, yeah. Okay, bark about this now.
The sound bite thing is really interesting too.
The everything is a sound bite and it either puts you in one camper or the other camp.
And the fact of the matter is you can't put me in a camp.
You can't because I got beliefs that you don't understand on one side on the other side.
Yeah.
You know, and so you can't talk to me about that kind of thing.
You can't, not that you can't talk. You can't put me in a camp.
But the instinct of the world right now is take that person and put him in a camp.
I'm not going in the camp. That's what's happening.
If you want to figure out what I'm thinking, listen, what I'm saying about,
Listen to what I'm saying in hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of hours
where I talk about human nature, right?
If you want to figure that out and then you want to ask me a point of question about something cool.
Ask it. Bring it.
If it's something that's going to be food.
If it's a bark, if you want me to bark about something, I'm probably not going to bark about it.
So what?
Throwing you in a camp, all you'd have is a whole lot of unhappy campers?
No, you throw me in a camp.
If you put me in one camp, the other camp doesn't listen anymore.
And that means their minds are closed, so they're not going to...
And the fact the matter is, there's good people in both camps.
And both people can be... can change and can accept new ideas.
If their mind is open, if their mind is open, they're just staying there camp.
And everyone else, I mean, when you watch the extremes of either camp right now,
it's like, it's like really? It's... it's bizarre a world.
Yeah, it's kind of odd.
So you just sit there and say, okay, why am I going to play that game?
Let's just become better people that understand people better and will make better.
I would make the place, make the world better.
Can't disagree.
Yeah, the whole unhappy campers, those mean more making a joke?
I did it.
Yeah, I know.
Yeah, I was good attempted humor.
Well, I actually know it wasn't.
There's a failure, but that's cool.
What was the other point you made?
Sometimes it's better to just try, you know?
And...
Oh, they would have...
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
See what up, now I know.
No, no, you know, don't try that again.
No more jokes from that control.
I'm going to learn from it.
Might mistake.
Anyway, next question.
What is the best way to break through a plateau in juditsu?
I'm stuck doing the same moves against the same training point as it has the same moves done to me.
Beating the same guys and getting beat by the same guys.
What should I do?
Well, I'll tell you what I would do.
Going a crazy training bench.
Yeah.
Take a week off from work and train eight hours a day.
Just get crazy.
Make sure you're healthy and then take a week off and train eight hours a day.
Like nuts.
That's number one.
Number two, you could also opposite.
Take a short break.
Take a little time.
Don't take a long break.
Take a little step back.
That's another option.
Another option is only start working on certain moves.
Like only utilize one.
Like, okay, so every time you get arm lock from the bottom of you, you got to be your guard player.
Don't play guard anymore.
Start just look, I'm not going to play guard every time I'm going to come up and I'm going to get this.
I'm going to go for a single leg from the bottom.
Like Dean does.
I'm going to do that every time until I start making a work, that's what I'm going to do.
And if I get choked a thousand times, that's fine because I'm going to get better out of
Eventually.
And the other thing is train like, you know, you get your little click of training partners at
your gym, start training with some of the other people that have different body styles and
different body shapes.
So you get used to, you have to bring out a new part of your game.
The first one that I talked about, training bench eight hours a day.
I know it's hard for people to actually make that happen.
It's not perfect.
The times that I've done that, the first time I did it, I actually do it at the time that I taught the
the jacco, the jit-jit for offense, the jit-jitsu offense for combat killing operations.
The jacco course.
And I trained these guys.
It was a small group.
It was like five of us.
And we trained all day.
And one of the guys was equivalent to me.
Dan, he was like, we were both like blue belts.
And so we, not only were teaching people, but we were training long.
And like my jit-jitsu visibly got better in a five day period.
Because I trained super hard for five straight is.
So that's a cool way.
You could probably do it for a weekend.
You know, probably just got three take a Friday off, train Friday Saturday, Sunday,
eight hours a day.
We're going some stuff.
Yeah.
Be careful when you know, because you get your overuse injuries and order,
you get when you're tired, you're more likely to get hurt.
So you got to use a little caution.
But those are some good ways to break your platos in jit-jitsu,
which we all, we all hit.
Yeah.
One way to know that you're breaking your platos,
you're going to get worse first.
You're going to get, you're going to lose.
You're going to lose to some of these guys that you have been tapping.
You're trying something new.
Yeah.
That is indicator for sure.
I like the do certain moves or omit certain moves.
Because like, it's a natural thing where like you,
when you're, when you're ascending, right?
When you're, when you're training,
you kind of settle into a certain type of game.
You know, so maybe yeah, you like to play guard a lot.
Maybe like to get the triangle from the guard a lot.
That's your kind of go-to, you know?
Where it all, it becomes sort of this almost like a muscle memory kind of thing.
Where it's like boom, you'll pull guard, you're routine in a row,
no matter who you're going against.
It's kind of real similar all the time.
Right?
So yeah, if you start omitting that stuff,
where's like, okay, I'm not,
I won't go for that triangle anymore.
I'll play guard, but it cannot do the triangle,
so it forces you to do other stuff.
And then sometimes depending on your experience,
you might have two, three, four go-toes, right?
So you still, you're still kind of trapped in that same plateau
but if you just omit one move.
So in that case, you think of a move that you might notice
other people getting a lot, not necessarily on you,
but you know, just in general, and be like,
hey, that's all I'm gonna do.
I can't get any other submission.
I can't.
I can only do, I don't know, the guillotine, for example.
Right? Let's say you, you just don't do guillotines that much,
or whatever.
I know you can't relate to that.
But you say, okay, I'm only going for guillotine.
If I'm like in my guard, I can't really, like,
I can't really get a guillotine from the guard or whatever.
And put it this way if you're not good at guillotines.
That'll force you to find ways to get a guillotine.
It'll force you.
And then if you do that for,
why don't we out say maybe even like three months,
maybe in six months, Brian Sergeant was like, hey,
yeah, like what I did?
Like, because he likes to plant up,
smash from the top.
He's like, I didn't just, for six months,
I just didn't plant up.
Mm-hmm.
Well, that might have been you.
I said that.
I don't know.
Why don't you guys said that?
That definitely happened with me.
Yeah.
It definitely happened with me.
I didn't like being on the bottom.
Yeah.
And then I just, this is like, okay.
No sweeps allowed.
No, like, starting from the top.
If you're, if you're starting, you pull guard.
That's it.
Like, no, that's your rule.
And that's the thing.
It's hard to, like,
it's hard to come to training.
Unless you have this plan in your mind set.
It's hard to come to training.
Be like, you know what?
I think I'm going to just only play guard today
if, like, you don't like guard.
Mm-hmm.
Because it's like, I don't want to get, like,
tapped out for everybody, you know?
Especially when you just got your purple belt.
Yeah.
You know, or something like this?
It's hard to do that.
But yeah, if you just make up your mind,
kind of think of it long term,
like I'm playing the long game here,
and just only go for that certain move that you want to get.
That's all you're doing.
It'll, that'll bust.
You put, put, pass the plateau easy.
It'll, I don't know about easy.
Well, it's a good way to work through your plateau.
But I think that's a very high probability
that you'll, you'll get past it.
Yeah, yeah.
And also, uh, just not easy.
No, no, no, no, no.
Cause you just have to work your plateau easy.
It's not easy.
Yeah, but it's actually hard.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
And I just don't, I just want to make sure
people aren't like, oh, you know,
Echo said to just try one move,
and then it's going to be easy to break the note.
Yeah, that's actually not true.
Yeah.
It's actually hard.
It's, it's hard to not just resort back to what you're good at.
And be when you don't resort to what you're good at,
you get your ass kicked on a regular basis, which is not fun.
Yeah.
So it's easy.
And that easily could be the two main challenges of
going through due to journeys.
Those two things.
Yeah.
Arguably.
Yes, you're right.
Correct.
That is absolutely correct.
If that's what you mean by easy.
What a kind of sort of meant was.
Yeah.
The properly breaking past the surf spot that I surf at.
Yes.
And one of the ways to get out of the water is dangerous,
but fast.
The other way to get out of the water is mellow,
but it's a longer walk.
And I was surfing with my buddy,
Stoner.
And he's like,
Hey, which way is it easier to get out?
And I said, well, bro, depends on which way.
It's easier to be easy.
If you mean me, you need to get out there.
Because one of them is not more than a few steps once you're good.
Yeah.
But getting good is getting to that point is a challenge.
The other way is really easy, but it's a long walk.
So it just depends on which you mean my easy.
Yeah.
So I mean to me.
Probability wise.
Let's say if you chose to break through your plateau,
by going to another gym to train with all different guys.
That would get your plateau.
But I think if you did this thing where you owe me a certain move,
or you just add a move they're not good,
and that's only what if you did that and really committed to it,
correctly, which is hard.
By the way, mentally, but if you did that,
I think the probability of you breaking past your plateau
and ending up at a further place in regards to progress
is much higher if you did that.
Yeah.
That's what I think.
And that's what I meant by easy, which I guess.
Yeah.
To show you, you use the word easy.
Depends what you mean by easy.
You can also do tournaments, planning.
If you do a lot of tournaments, you'll bust past the plateau.
Yeah.
Weaknesses will be exposed.
And it's like, your mind will be way more eddies in training too.
It'll be like more, oh, yes, weird.
For sure.
I think so.
Anyway, next question.
How do you apply the principle of building a relationship with your boss
when your boss doesn't value relationships?
For example, he consistently avoids interactions that don't lead directly to a deliverable
on a current objective.
He avoids all other interactions such as those that are for the purpose of building
relationships and chemistry within the team.
Okay.
What would I do in that situation?
Well, then, okay, obviously, what I would do is I would build a relationship based on deliverable
current objectives.
Right?
If that's what he's into, I'm going to make that happen.
Like, I'm going to be the guy that he thinks can get this to happen.
And that's what our relationship is going to be based on.
And I'm fine with that when he wants to talk about work, I'll talk about work.
I had bosses like that.
I had plenty of bosses like that.
And what do you do when you have bosses like that and play the game?
Like, okay, we're going to, let's just make this happen.
Let's do this.
Now, let me say this.
Because he isn't personable.
This means that you have to be more personable, not somewhat with him,
but with the rest of the team, because there's a lacking element within the team that you as a good
team player and team member and leader, whether you're in a positional leadership or just a human leader,
you can improve the team by building some of that human connection that bonds the team more.
So, even though my boss is impersonable and is just about the business and just about the current objective,
that's fine with me.
I'm going to do my best to support him and make him realize that I'm going to got the guy that's going to make those objectives work.
And I'm going to build the human connection with the rest of the team, which will make our team stronger.
Now, I'm not going to offend my boss by being the guy that is more popular than him.
Some people have some people that have the attitude that this individuals talking about,
what would you call this person?
Just like 100% work focused.
If I got a guy that's 100% work focused, sometimes that kind of boss finds the person that wants to chat,
annoying, right?
Unknowing, which is possible.
So, you don't want to be, you don't want to annoy the boss and he thinks all this,
all this guy, Joggoy just wants to build friends. He's not here to work.
No, you've got to be careful about that.
And the weird thing is, honestly, I'm very work focused.
I'm very work focused.
And I have to do more, but I just think I have to consciously think about, okay, on top of it.
Actually, I still do have to do it sometimes.
You know, like, I have to consciously think about, like, okay, I also need to like,
be nice and build relationship with the person that I've don't.
Normally interact with, right?
So, you do have to do that.
So, from the relationship with the rest of the team, the good relationship, and then from the best relationship that you can with the boss,
and that is going to help the whole team. That's it. It's as simple as that.
And I'll say one more thing about this.
You don't get to pick your leader.
Generally, you don't get to pick your leader.
But you can pick the relationship that you have with your leader.
So, what your leaders into? Let's get in the game. Let's build a good relationship.
Once again, if someone's out there thinking, oh, so you just want me to kiss ass.
What I'm saying is not that I want you to kiss ass.
I'm saying I want you to win. That's what I'm saying.
Because the better relationship you build with your boss, the more influence you have over the better chance you have of getting promoted,
the better chance you have of accomplices in the mission and taking care of your team.
That's the way it works. Why don't you want to get promoted?
So, I can get more money from myself. No, I want to get promoted.
So, I can do the mission. So, I can take care of my team. That's why I want to get promoted.
If it was just about like taking care of myself, I wouldn't go work for this guy.
I'd go find another job and pick a different boss.
Because you do get to pick your boss. You can quit your job.
Quit your day job.
So, that's what you do. You build that relationship.
How does it is? Get some.
Yeah, that's a good point with the details of it.
You can't just start trying to chat the guy up.
No, it's not. You just like that.
Yeah, no one does actually. Even if you're a social person,
but you're just focused on something.
Yeah.
And, I don't know. You're focusing on your friend calls you.
They call me, it might be important.
Me, you're talking.
Yeah, and they're telling you about the episode of whatever last night.
And you're like, Brad, I'm working right now.
Brad and watch TV.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Now you're going to step further than I had in my book.
I'm just saying that that's annoying no matter who you are.
So, if you're thinking, you know, this boss is like he doesn't like the quote unquote build
Build relationship and like all the stuff.
He's only then you're going to, you run that risk of annoying him.
Yes, you can be a sister.
You got a big step back to my economy.
That kind of thing.
But there's little, and usually it has to do with time too.
You know, so if you go in and you just go just little digs of like relationship building stuff,
but not don't take, don't go in there and be like, hey,
did you catch the game last night?
Yeah, I don't want to talk about it.
I don't want to talk about it.
I don't care.
But, you know, I don't know.
Nice tie.
Boom, out.
You know, kind of big.
I don't know.
Don't say nice tie.
No, don't.
Next question.
The guy that's high level worker does not want to hear about his tie.
It's not care about his tie.
Yeah.
A lot of people.
But yeah, and I don't know how to get in the corporate scenario.
I think my whole life, but.
So I don't know that I just seem like something on the move.
It's a long thing about your shirt.
That wasn't corporate.
That was a big club.
But yeah.
Leadership.
Yeah, same cut for sure.
And the point is there's things you can say that don't take up his time and necessarily
his full attention to annoy him that you can say or do.
It's what I'm saying.
I don't know what that is because I don't.
I don't.
I don't work with you guys.
Check.
Next question.
Hey, Jockel.
My boss is trying to implement, let's say boss.
Let's say, boss.
I don't know why it's it's highlighting.
Oh, my boss is.
So.
Where it works, man.
Somebody was talking about on social media.
How you said, peace.
You're like, I went to the grocery store.
I got some peace.
So, you know.
It's a, you know, variable.
I don't know.
I see that.
Not the variable escalation.
Sure.
My boss is trying to implement a process that I see the end result not being what is needed.
And I have proposed an alternative that is proven and will add value to the company.
Do I give up trying to position to get the outcome we need or do I commit to help
implement his process and wait for outcome then trying it?
It is a relatively small failure in the big picture outcome, but would like some input on how
to get the results we need long term.
Very cool question.
And so, yeah, you got a scenario where your boss wants to do something.
You know you got a better idea that'll work better.
What do you do?
Well, first of all, anyway, that I can make my idea and his idea, that's what I'm going to try
and do.
So, you have to be careful.
And again, I don't know what your boss might be an open minded person.
If you've got a good leader, you can go there and say, hey, boss is what you're trying
to make happen.
I think this will work better and your boss make, oh, wow, that's a great idea.
You know what?
Let's go with that.
There's leaders like there out there that make it happen.
You're probably not asking this question if you have that kind of boss.
You're probably talking about someone that has a little bit more ego.
Things they know a little bit more and not really open minded to new ideas.
And that's why making your idea and his idea is going to be a better option.
Don't try and force your idea.
And one thing you do is you could ask questions and I've talked about this before, but like,
you say something like, you know, hey, boss, I want to make sure that I'm supporting this in the best way possible.
So, I really want to understand this fully.
So, can you explain this here to me and why we're doing it like that?
And then you know you have a conversation with your boss and then you go, oh,
and maybe your boss has some good points that you didn't understand or maybe that opens the door
for you to say, hey, boss, the way that this other group is doing it is like this.
Do you think we could try that?
Or you say, if you want to ego him up a little bit, like, hey, boss, you know, I don't,
boss, you know, I don't, I don't fully understand this, you know, as well as you do,
could you just help me understand why we're doing it this way?
And then once again, what you're doing is you're starting a conversation.
If you can't get the message across in that indirect manner,
you can be a little bit more direct, but be careful when you're direct with people.
They dig in, man.
They dig in, especially with anyone with any kind of ego.
You go, they dig in.
You tell them your idea and they just, all of a sudden, they come up with reasons not to,
do it and you have to be careful.
That's why you have to use caution when you reveal your plan.
It's better to not even reveal it as your plan.
It's better to reveal it as like an idea and then let it become their plan.
Don't reveal your emotions.
Okay, now all that fails.
This guy's just dead set.
Hey, we're doing it my way.
Shut up echo.
We're not listening to your plan.
We're doing it my way.
Then what you do?
Yeah, you go all in.
What about the best, the best ability you, you try and learn what they want,
you try and execute what they want, you try and understand what they want better than anyone else including him.
So that way you go out, you execute, you know where all the weaknesses are.
Now you learn and now you can come back with a better argument,
or a better seeded plan in their head, hey boss, I know your plan.
It's working really, really well and one thing that we could do to make it even better.
better. I think what do you think of this if we did XYZ instead of XYB? I think it might work
a little bit better. What do you think? And then you, again, you plant this, you plant the team.
And maybe, I mean, you plant the seed. And maybe you can incorporate, you know, there's times
where there's times where I did this. Oh, that's what you want to do, boss. Cool. God, yep,
that's what we're going to do. Going to do something. Same result, get the same result but do it
a different way. You know, it's the ask for better to ask for forgiveness than per mesh. Yeah,
than per mesh. So sometimes it's like, it's like the again, we're going back to the idea of things
that don't matter. If my boss wants me to do it one way and I can do it just a little bit different
and no one's going to know and it's going to be all good and our results going to be the better or
the same. I'm probably just going to be like, hey, boss, I got it. And then hey, boss, yeah, on the fly,
we made a little call here. We went with a, y, b or Z, d, a instead of Z, d, b. I hope it's not, you know,
bad, but here's the results, by the way, we did it an even shorter time. And the boss goes, oh, yeah,
that's cool. There's no big deal because he sees the results. He wants to take a little bit
credit forms. So again, once this about this is about building the relationship. So let me ask you this.
This is, this is an important, a good question to ask yourself. Will, what will help the team more?
What will help the team more? Will it help the team more to disrupt the relationship and undermine the boss?
Will that, will that help the team? No. Will it help the team if you create an antagonistic relationship
with your boss? No, that won't help your team. Will it help your team if you build the relationship
with your boss if you unify the team? If you strengthen the team and you bring everyone together,
will that help the team? Yes, it will help the team. Will that build the relationship with your boss?
Yes, it will build the relationship with your boss. If you have a better relationship with your boss,
is your boss more likely to accept the influence that you're throwing at him? Yes, absolutely.
So I think that's something you can ask yourself a lot. Is what I am trying to do
you're going to help the team or her to team and you actually have to look at those two in the long term in the
short term. Because sometimes you do something that hurts the team right now. It'll help the team later.
Like for instance, hey, we're going to fire a guy. Everyone loves him, but it's going to disrupt the team,
but long term will be better off. Sometimes that works. Sometimes it's like we're going to fire this guy,
everyone loves him and it's going to be a long term down. It's going to be a long term detriment
that you made this call. So you have to check yourself and check what's going to help the long term
short term of the team is going to make it better. It's going to make it worse. In this case,
try to make your plan your boss's plan. If you can't, then support build relationships and influence
over the long term, especially because this guy very smart to mention that this is a relatively
small failure. Like this is an acute risk. You can, hey boss, you know what, we got it done,
didn't quite got to come the same way. Here's what we're going. So very good question.
Interesting. Next question. Similar question. Yeah, this is why I grew this one together.
We had a couple of grouped questions. This is one of them. Jockel, I was wondering what your advice
is for disagreeing up the chain of command. Obviously, this needs to be done with some
tact, IE in private, not in front of others, but in those private conversations, how should one
respectfully disagree? Again, this again, similar question, a better technique than disagreeing,
it's just to ask questions. You know, boss, hey, I want to make sure I get this right. Can
you explain it to me again? Can you watch me do it? Right? So your boss actually sees what the
problem is. That way, you're not being offensive. Hey, boss, can you explain why you chose this
course of action? I really want to learn from what you do, the way you do it.
I, again, does that sound like a kiss ass? Yes, because I'm exaggerating. You know what I mean? Hey,
boss, you're so incredibly smart. No, I'm not talking about that because bosses don't like
kiss ass kisses. At least good bosses. Good bosses don't. And actually, even good bosses,
they might keep their kiss asses around, but they don't respect them. So you don't gain influence
by being a kiss ass. It's not a good situation. So I'm not talking about kissing ass, but you know,
hey, boss, I'm really want to understand this and make sure I understand it. Can you, can you
explain to me why this is the best way to make this to do this versus the other way? You know,
that's the kind of question. That's not kiss ass. That's actually, you know, it is actually
legitimately wanting to know. Well, like I legitimately want to know, maybe, you know, what if we
instead of assuming that we know better than our boss? What if we assume that my boss knows better
than me? Let's make that assumption. And if you communicate with that assumption,
then you're probably going to communicate in a much better way than communicating with
these assumption that my boss is nitty at 9 o'clock, which is not a good way to communicate.
Yeah, it's funny when you know that you kind of said that about the kiss ass guy. Because that
comes up a lot. I don't want to be kiss ass. And yeah, you don't. The kiss ass guy is the same thing
as being friend zone. You know what friends don't mean? Yeah, I do. It's the same thing. Yeah.
So like the girl, right, typically it's a guy who gets friend zone, right? Because he's like
too nice. He's too nice. He's too whatever. He's essentially a, and you're like a brother to
me intimate. Yes, man. That's what he is. So of course, the girl's going to keep them around for
all this like good feeling superficially. I mentioned lunch. All that stuff. All those superficial stuff.
He's not going to get anywhere of legitimacy with her. Actual decision making. If you translate
that into the, you know, working environment or whatever. Well, yeah, the boss, I mean, a certain
kind of boss, just like a certain girl's going to keep a guy around for that reason.
Certain boss is going to be like, yeah, I'll keep her around. I feel a little bit bad even firing
the guy like that a little bit because he's just so nice to me and gives me all these compliments.
And even in a, you know, weird way, I think the kid's asked guy kind of knows that too. You know,
like, how why would he ever fire me even though he's not that good in the job or whatever, right?
Because, you know, he can't fire me. I'm just too nice to me. You know, there's that feeling is floating
around is what I'm saying. But it's the same deal, right? Like, it's too many compliments. Just too much of a
yes, man. I'll keep you around for very superficial reasons. But that's it, brother. You, you don't get past.
Yeah, that's, and that's not a good place to be in. No, it's not, sir.
That's why I'm not saying, kiss ass. And the way I just explained that of actually assuming that your
boss knows more than you is a good way to approach the situation. As opposed to approaching the
situation like you know more than your boss. Why act like that? The outcome isn't going to be inferior.
The outcome is inferior. The outcome of acting like your boss or assuming that your boss knows
more than you. The outcome is you treat them with respect. Because the other way you could try and
treat them with respect, respect, but inadvertently you sound like, you know, some people, I just
we talk about normal face, right? Some people, they cannot even ask a question in a respectful way,
right? They can't even, what was I saying over here? They can't even say, you know, hey boss,
can you explain this to me? Because I really want to understand. They can't even say that, you know?
Hey boss, can you explain this to me? Because it doesn't make any sense. They can't even ask a
question in a respectful way. That's a skill you should master as a leader and as a follower,
as a leader and as a follower, how to ask questions in respectful way. Lave pointed this out.
Lave pointed out. We were talking about the fact of, I would say, with a story he's told a bunch
of times of going through the kill house and he's in the back of the train and you shouldn't
be in the back of the train. You should be somewhere where you can lead everyone because when
you're in the back of the train, you don't know what's happened in the front of the train.
Of a soldier's a big group of people moving through a kill house. And I didn't, and he was, you know,
Jarko didn't say, hey, stop doing that and do it this other way. He's like, he asked me questions,
and he's like, they were real questions. I wasn't like, hey, they've wanted to hell or you're in the
back of the train. Is that a respectful question? No, it's not a respectful question. But it's like,
hey, Lave, what are you doing in the back of the train? This is a respectful question. I'm actually
assuming that maybe Lave who doesn't have the experience that I have, who's my subordinate,
as a platoon commander to me, that big task in the commander, my assumption is not that I know
more than him. My assumption is that he's got a reason for that. My assumption is that he knows
more than me. Which is one of the one of Jordan Peterson's 12 rules for life. It's like, uh, I think
it's assumed the person that you're talking to knows more than you. What I'm saying is the same thing.
Up and down the chain of command, you assume that your boss or your subordinate knows something
that you don't know. And if you can ask questions in that way, instead of asking questions,
boss, what are we doing this for? Or Lave, why are you doing that? Lave, why are you in the back of
the train? That's stupid. No. It's okay, Lave. Why are you in the back of the train? What is
your purpose of being back there? I genuinely genuinely want to know. And this isn't like,
I'm not even saying I'm acting like that. I truly genuinely want to know what the deal is.
So make the assumption up and down the chain of command that your boss, your subordinate,
knows more than you. And then ask good questions with true genuine curiosity that you want to
know the answers to. It's a good way to go about it. Like, okay. Next question. I'm a young
warehouse manager that takes ownership for anything and everything that goes wrong. This seems
to offend my coworkers. How can I fix it? Okay, classic dichotomy leadership question right there.
You've gone too far. That's what's happened. You've gone too far. So what you have to be,
do what you have to do is don't be offensive when you take ownership. When you take ownership,
some people get offended by that. So when you say, hey, you know what this is mine? I got this.
That bothers some people. When you say, you know what, this is my fault. I'm going to fix it.
That even that offend some people. What the tone? Just the tone. I'm like, no, this is my fault.
I got this. And you do that three times, four times, five times, and all of a sudden, because
of what everything's his fault. No, he's got to fix everything. They he doesn't think I can fix it.
Right. You can offend people with it with all kinds of stuff. You have to work very hard to offend people.
I mean, there's people get offended when you say something nice to them. You know what I mean?
Yes. You know what I mean? I was watching. I met the person that yoga dude that does like
yoga videos. He's got red hairs named spears. Yeah. I met him. He's randomly getting off a plane.
But he's he what I. Spears or seers. Seers. I think it's seers. Maybe what I say spears?
Yeah. I don't know. I know the guy though. Yeah. Yeah. He's a spiritual AF one. Yeah. Yeah. Very funny guy.
Very cool guy. And I was once I met him. I was a laugh and I was checking out a couple of videos,
but one of them was you know how to be offended at all things. And it's hilarious. Because
that's exactly what people, people with some people can get offended by anything. Yeah. So
that's what you got to watch out for. Even when you're taking ownership,
people can actually be offended by that if you go too far. So instead of overtly stepping up and taking
ownership in this particular case, then you can tell what what's going on here. My brother here,
young warehouse manager, he's fired up. He wants to make things happen. He wants to get after it.
And so what does he do? He's like, oh, I read extreme ownership. I'm going to take ownership of
everything. And that's a great attitude to have, except for you can offend people when you go too far.
Because you got to read the second book that I got to do in the kitchen so that you can
balance out out a little bit. So instead of saying like, hey, this is mine. I'm going to take
ownership of this and make it happen. Instead, you know, you look and say, hey, you know what,
do you want me to take care of this? Hey, you know what? That's probably in my department.
You want me to take care of that? So that way, it would or like, hey, it seems like this should be
something I should take care of. You want me to handle that. Instead of me, me, me, me. I got to
ask the question the other day at a Q&A. And the question started off with the person started the
question with, I've got the vote. I've got the question that everyone in here needs answered.
So so out of the gate, I was like, okay, so we have a situation here, right? Because that immediately
tells you that in that person's head, they've got they've got the question that everyone needs answered.
So there's already an ego scenario happening, like out of the gate. So
same thing here, you don't know if you're going to touch someone's egos, right? So when you say,
look, this is my deal. And I'm going to fix it. Like some people will take a fence that. So again,
you soften those a little bit, try and give credit up the chain of command, right? Try and give
credit down the chain of command. Instead of all take ownership of it, it's like, hey, we got what
if you say we, when when credit gets dulled out, get past that credit on, pass it to your peers,
pass it to your some more than it's past it to your boss. So that's it, take ownership,
what you need to do at this point, young man, is take ownership of being offensive.
And when you do that, you're going to be less offensive, you're going to be more covert.
Hey, guess what? Remember I said earlier, like, you don't get to pick the boss, you,
you don't get to pick your boss. You, but you get to pick the relationship you have. You don't get
to pick your, your peers. You don't get to pick your support as you get your team.
Hey, can you pick them? Yes, you can quit your job. Can you hire the right people? Yes,
you can. But look, what you got is what you got. You got to work with it. You do, everyone,
I wish everyone is more fired up like I am. But that's not going to go well. You know,
it's great that you wish that that's not going to go well. What you have to do is you got to,
you got to, you got to, here's another one, this is similar, right?
Millennials.
Well, hey, one of the things, what do they, this is a very simple, you know, I've, I've
done the Millennium Quest a thousand times. And, you know, the Vietnam veterans, the Vietnam
drafties compared to the, like, hey, we can talk about that again, we don't need to. But if you've
got to, if you're a charge of Millennials, and you think to yourself, Millennials, thinks
everything, they think everything centers around them. What do you do as a leader? You know,
what I do is a leader, I make everything center around them, and then they perform, and then they
get after it. And as they grow up, they learn that everything doesn't center around them. But I bring
them there. Why? Because I form a relationship. Why? Because I listen to them. Why? Because I understand them.
So you don't get the team that you want. You don't get the boss that you want. What you do is you play
the game up and down the chain of command and form relationships up and down the chain of command.
That you want. What relationships do you want? From up the chain of command, you want them to
listen to you. You want them to give you what you need. You want them to get out of your way.
And let you do the mission. What about down the chain of command? You want them to support what's
happening. You want them to get after the job. You want them to step up and lead. That's what you want.
If you have an antagonistic relationship, because your Millennials think everything's about them,
well, then guess what? You're not going to be able to have any influence on them. Any real
influence. You can have the imposed will on them. But the imposed will is a paper tiger, right?
It's not real. It only lasts when you're there. And guess what they're doing? They're looking for
another job. So take ownership of being offensive and be less offensive and more covert. And
you know what? Bro, young warehouse manager, keep getting after it. And it will pay off. And the
fact that you're fired up and you're crushing it, crush it with a little bit more tact.
And you're going to one day you're going to be making it happen. Yeah. We'll get time for
one more question. Yeah. To add though a little tip, I think that I think you taught this to
actually I realized this when I embraced extreme ownership. You can't say, hey, I'm going to take
extreme ownership of this. Like it's one of those things. It's like just like taking the high ground,
right? You get in like a thing with somebody. Yeah. You can't say, I'm going to take the high ground.
And then it doesn't work like that. Like it, it just came up the high ground when you announced
that you were taking the high ground. Give it up. Exactly. Same thing with extreme ownership.
Like in this situation. So if you're a very good point at going to the top. And the thing is
I get it man. When you're like, you know, I'm taking it and he even said I take ownership of anything
and everything. That goes wrong. Anything like straight up because you're guy. Right. So it might
indicate, I'm not saying he's doing this, but he could be going, hey guys, no worries. I'm taking
extreme ownership of this situation. You know, like if you say that kind of stuff, yeah, I could see
that would rub somebody. What's odd? And this is a very good thing to understand about human nature.
Everyone's jealous of you. Everyone's jealous of each other. Everyone's jealous of everyone else.
No one wants you to win. Right. It's just like so when this guy is stepping up, the crowd starts to
pick at him. They start to pick at him and they want to pick him. They want to pull him apart.
That's generally what the crowd wants to do to you. When you step up, when you elevate yourself,
generally, the crowd wants to pick it to your pull you down. You think he exactly exactly. So if you're
aware of that, then you can combat it by when instead of elevating yourself in an overt manner,
wherever you can see you saying, I'm going to take ownership this right now and get it soft.
No. Usually if I can say, hey, you know what? This is probably my fault. Do you want me to
let me try and take some time and get it fixed? Everyone goes, they're actually kind of happy. They're like,
yeah, it was your fault. They kind of like, it's okay with them. Whereas opposed to,
I'm going to take ownership. This is dichotomy leadership. You're red, extreme ownership.
Awesome. You got to read dichotomy too.
That's shit. It's a question. When something goes wrong, I freeze up,
opposite of the, you know, I freeze up. I get stagnant. I don't want to move. I just ask myself,
why me? I've tried saying good, but it's not getting me moving forward in your advice.
You ask yourself, why me? So, saying good, that should fix your attitude.
But that alone, that alone will not fix your problems. If you're having problems, sure,
say good, that's perfect. But then don't ask yourself, why me?
Instead, ask yourself, now what am I going to do about it?
What are you going to do about? Ask yourself that question.
And then figure it out. Figure out what you're going to do. Say to yourself,
I am going to detach. I am going to assess the situation. I am going to come up with a plan,
and I am going to execute. And then start moving. It's not going to be a perfect plan,
but take action, action that moves you in a positive direction. And if it ends up being the wrong
direction, that's fine. At least you've learned where not to go. Now, where this gets tough,
is if it is something that seems like it's completely out of your control.
And you know what, some things are completely out of your control, and that's fine.
And when that happens, you ask yourself, what can I control?
What can I control? That will make this situation a little bit better.
And then you go. Don't get crushed by things going wrong.
Ask yourself, what am I going to do and then go do it?
And I think that's all I've got for tonight. So echo Charles speaking of
moving in the right direction. I know you've got some things that can help us move in the right direction.
What do you got for us? Yeah. Okay. So, that's it. That's what I'm going to do. So,
so the path has what many directions, but it's all in the same general direction. It's improvement.
It's improvement. There's different roads on the path. Yes. Which is a really weird thing to say.
Yeah. It's more of a general thing. Anyway, but you just do the universal in my opinion. I'm assuming
in your opinion too. Where if you're not doing you just do more so than I would say,
like that's terrible. I'm not going to say that. But I'm saying if you go through life and not
do jujitsu and you're on the path, you might be left maybe missing out. You know what's really cool
about this podcast and about people listening this podcast and about people starting jujitsu.
This is the coolest thing. Two years ago, I would've been like, hey, you know, you should try
jujitsu. It's really good. But I couldn't like confirm how universal so many people, I just,
so many people have to take their first class or the first nine classes or the first three classes.
They're like, I'm addicted. Yeah. Why is that? Because there's something special about
jujitsu. So, you should train it. Yeah. Yeah. When you can draw them, the parallels, the meta.
It's the metaphor for like, the 18 list to tell me that early on actually.
You know, actually, the master philosopher. They did a class for and under govow. It'll
straight at some point. And a big one that under govow said that I will never forget. It's like,
jujitsu is like, is life. So, consider jujitsu. Like, if you turn your back on your problems,
in jujitsu, they're going to get worse. And let's face it. That's in, especially early on. That's how
you get a guy to turn. That's how you get a choke. Right. When you're mounted on somebody,
you slap him in the face. Why? And why? If you get slapped in the face, what do you want to do?
Turn your back. Right? They call it don't slap my face. That's how you get the choke.
So, under govow said, and jujitsu, you turn your back. And you give your back to your opponent.
That's the worst thing you can do. But it's hard to face them usually. You got to work, you know?
Same thing in life, man. Turn your back on your problems. Those problems are going to get you.
Yeah. Then you've heard me say that at the master. You turn your back on your problems. They don't
go away. They actually get worse. And it's the same exact thing in jujitsu.
I'm not joking. Yes. Getting particularly angry. So it's cool now to get feedback from thousands of
people that have now gotten in the jujitsu game and the feedback, I've got probably, I think,
three people out of many, many. And this isn't one of yours where you say like a lot of people
and it's like four. I'm talking thousands of people. I've gotten three that don't like jujitsu.
That did, they just don't like it. And that's why I came up with the rule. Okay, if you don't like it,
that's fine. Train at least until you've submitted someone that's kind of equivalent.
And then you can stop. Yeah. And the reason I think, I think that's actually once you do that,
you'll you'll understand jujitsu because I'm going to just don't even understand it.
Sometimes people just can't comprehend it. They can't comprehend what's happening.
And it's just too much. Yeah. This is too much. Yeah. And so they don't want to do it.
Yeah. But if you do it long enough that you submit someone, then you get that little like,
wow, the fucker. It's incredible like at the master when you when you show the connection of
two moves. Yeah. This like, it's like amazing. Oh yeah. And then when you try and explain that every
move is connected that way. Because that's a big, so it's a big network. But but people don't
understand that jujitsu is not just moves. Yeah. That it's all this grouped thing together.
This symphony of movement. Leng which is good. Anyway, when you do it,
you're going to need a key because you're going to do key and no key. So key and rash card. That's
the uniform. Call it a uniform. Sure. So you go to origin because you're going to get an origin
key. It's the best one. Origin main dot com or it just means we forgive to say that. We're not good. I
feel like I forget to say that the name is origin. I say origin mean. Okay. So cool. But you'll,
yeah, you'll come to realize that it's very obvious that origin is the only kind of key that you'll
want slash need. I mean America, by the way, the threads are me. I like to throw that out there.
Just like, oh, by the way, like it's made America. No, it's not just something you throw out there.
It's a big deal. We're talking about a loom multiple times. I actually had this. So I was talking
to, is actually my literary agent. Sure. And I was like, well, you know, like, I said it turns out,
you know, they're not, they can't put out Mikey in the dragons before November. So I'm just going
to, you know, make this book myself and starting a publishing company. And she's like, um,
well, you know, a lot of people try that. But you know, it's, there's a lot more to it. You know,
it's really hard. Yeah. And I was like, okay. Cool. Do you know what a loom is? I go, my friends
up and main brought a loom back from the grave and weave material from cotton and nylon to sew together.
The loom weighs 9,000 pounds. The loom weighs 9,000 pounds. There has 5 million threads in going into it.
It's got, it's got millions of parts inside of it. It was rusted. You're going to tell me we can't
get photocopy some stuff and put it out in the book. I got this. I got this. Don't, don't, don't,
and it's funny because I told that to Brian and Pete. I was laughing so hard because, because really,
what's what I, I don't even know if I could think of something harger. Then saying, oh, we're going
to drag a loom out of a dam, abandoned factory in Lewiston, Maine. Yeah. One loom left. The rest of
them have been sent overseas during the economic downturn. Oh, we'll just, we'll just, we'll just outsource.
Now I remind outsource, we're just going to send our bread and butter, our American hardware
overseas and let someone else make it. There was one loom left. And guess what? We got it.
Orgen. Yeah. So you're telling me that we can take this old loom that's 30 years old that
hasn't been run. That's rusted and dirty and abandoned and bring that thing back to life.
You're telling me we can't print some books and get him out to my people. You're wrong.
Watch me. Straight up wrong. Get some jockel publish. Yep. And that loom does not only make
geese in rashcards by the way. Multiple looms by the way. It wasn't just that one loom. No, it was
one loom. Oh, it turns in with yes. And now there's three looms. Rocking in roll. Yeah. Yeah. So,
yeah, you can get shirts and joggers and sweats. Sweats. Uh, uh, named. Named. I don't know about
name. We'll say named the most comfortable sweat and sweats in the world. Straight up. The joggers. I
proclaim straight up most comfortable pants in the world. Then the less. Find out for yourself.
Anyway, orgen made.com to make a lot of cool good stuff all made in America by the way. Yeah. And
that includes made in America supplements. Jockel, stop. Jockel, stop. Jockel, stop.
But, you know, the jocco thing is just to complete a lack of originality. That's what it is.
Get. Because when you think about it from a broader perspective and you know me well enough to be like,
the last thing I would do is like, oh, I'm just going to call everything jocco. It's like,
bizarre, although. Yeah. Well, and it started with a podcast. It started with jockel podcast. And
that after I've said this before, but I was on Tim Ferriss's podcast and he was, he said, like,
are you hungry? And I was like, jockel hungry. And for some reason that just made me jockel. And then
when we were naming this podcast, I was like, oh, you're like, what do you call him like,
jockel podcast? As if it's the same nanderfall thing. And so then then it was like, okay,
we're going to make tea. What do you call, Paul McGrann at white tea? What do we call it? Like,
the Vedic solution? I mean, what are you going to call it? Like, it's like, okay, well,
just it's going to be the tea that I drink. So it's called jocco white tea. Okay, cool. Well, then
hey, when I when I started saying, you know what, I need to make some good supplements,
Pete and Brian in the game. Like, I'm like, hey, go, and you make this. And they're like,
yeah, and I said, okay, well, then what are we going to call it? Well, just call it, you know,
jockel super cool. Then there you go. So that's how we end up with the least creative name of any
products they've existed. I apologize to everyone. Actually, it seemed like well early on anyway,
it seemed like it wasn't creative because you're like, hey, this create like, if I create this
super creative name, like, is that important? Really great. Now I'm too busy making it good. Well,
we talked about in the last podcast that sometimes I'm so in the functionality. Yeah, that's
it. That I'm not in in synchronicity with the rest of the world sometimes. For instance,
if you allowed me to design a house, no human being would live in the house except for me and like
three other seals that I know that would be like, oh, it's house is perfect. I've never
know to be like, bro, what is wrong with you? And so you, you know, you have to keep that.
Same with vehicles. Like, if I could design my own vehicle, no one would want to drive it, but me.
Maybe that's what I want to make. They look a little bit broader because you get people that'd be like,
yeah, oh, so I have to be careful because sometimes I'm just so into function that it just doesn't
make sense to anyone else but me. Yeah, but it does have its value big time when it comes to
supplements because what joint warfare function. Try lose function or you're joint see what happens.
Same thing with cruel oils, same thing with discipline, brain function. And then of course,
that's muscle function muscle building function recovery. Yeah. It does look all of them together.
Brain function joint function muscle function. Boom, you're good to go. Yeah. Yeah. And speaking of
functionality and this is one of the things where you to kind of attack me. You attacked me because
for you in, see, this is this is a perfect example. In your mind, I'm all about function, right?
Yes. Then when I started making supplements, I wanted them to taste good. Yes. And that was actually,
it was actually side by side with functionality. His taste. Why is that? Because if you
don't, if it doesn't taste good, then it's not going to function because you're not going to use it.
So these taste delish, especially, more, let's face the facts. There's this, it's this whole new thing.
Yeah. It's a, it's literally a new thing in the world. We had to create, I created a name for it.
Mulk, why did I create that name? What else you're going to call it? It doesn't make sense to call it anything else.
Because it's not anything else. It just is mulk. That's what it is.
Now, okay. I got four kids. We know I have four kids. I spend time with kids. I see kids all the time.
We got kids to just programs at my gym. What do kids need kids need fuel? What do kids get fed?
They get fed crap. Why? Because there's, there's sugar in everything. There's high-fruits,
those currents were, corn syrup and everything. There's, it's just garbage.
So, with my own kids, what do I want to feed them? I want to feed them something that's good.
We made warrior kid mulk. Why? Because kids need good foodie. We're putting kids on the warrior path.
I get letters every single day from kids all over the world, New Zealand, Australia.
Europe, America, for sure. Kids that are seven years old, that are nine years old, that are 11
years old, that are 14 years old, and they're on the path. They're doing pull-ups. They're doing
jujitsu. They're sending pictures of their jujitsu tournament. They're drawing pictures of
their metal that they got for jujitsu. There's kids that are on the warrior kid path. What are they eating?
Are they eating junk? Sometimes they're eating junk, not because they want to, but that's because
that's what's in their fridge. So, had to solve that problem. So, we made warrior kid mulk. Again,
what was equivalent to functionality? The function was they need protein, they need vitamins,
they need probiotics. Functional. Part side-by-side with that had to taste good. Had to taste good.
And what do we end up with? Warrior kid mulk, chocolate and strawberry.
It's freaking delicious. Both of them. They're so good. They're so tasty. It's ridiculous.
So, that's warrior kid mulk. That's available from originmain.com. We're going to try and get
that one out to the masses. Every kid needs warrior kid mulk. Instead of drinking some sugarful
crap of fillers. We're going to give you real food. Gonna make you stronger. We're so good.
Yeah man. We can't have had soda growing up in my house, but I used to go to my friend's house
and he was Eric Masters. He's a pilot from the first by the way. So, I'd go to his house and
they'd have, so he didn't. He wasn't pounding. So, what other time is it superior athlete? Oh,
this is the sky. But they had soda kind of above the thing. Wait, so when I was a kid,
we didn't even relate. Like, soda wasn't bad for you. We just were like, oh, this is just,
this is just how? Like, oh, we just directly, I'm thirsty. I'm going to drink a coke.
Yeah. And the answer to your phrase, but that like when you're a kid, like, oh, I haven't
drinking anything all day. I'm really thirsty. Give me a coke. Yeah. You just drink it. Exactly.
Right. And that's the point. You don't know that there was 36 grams of corn syrup in there.
Yeah. It's a, yeah. Good job. Thinking back, I'm like, dang, that is a crazy violation.
Crazy. Well, could you imagine, like, an only weighed 48 pounds? Yeah.
It wasn't like it wasn't like you're a 225 pound grown man. Like I am right now.
I can probably put down a coke in a wooden, but you're, you're nine years old.
Look, here it. Get some of that wrong. Some grape crush. Yeah. Pineapple. So,
anywhere's a cut you know, in a, in a, in a, in a, a master's. No. Yeah. But no, that was, that,
that's the point where you go in. It's just, so that's just how, oh, yeah, grab a soda after
school, whatever. They'd sell soda for 50 cents after our school. You go in the thing, you buy the soda,
whatever, soda machine, whatever. What if he was milked, though? Oh, way better. Way better.
Because it tastes just as good. If it actually tastes better, then it's so tough.
It's like that's all for sure. Yeah. Oh, the navil. Yeah. And you're, yeah, that'd be just
be way better. So, there you go. Warrior kid milk, but milk for the adults. And then the other
funny thing was I had all the people send in pictures of their kids drinking. Before we had Warrior
Kid Mokers, the kids were just straight up going down the Mokers, trained themselves.
Little kids, two years old, three years old, four years old, little kids drinking Mok.
Oh, I got the Warrior Kid Mok. Little less protein. Tasty as can be vitamins, probiotics,
just good to go. Go away to go. 100%. Yeah, totally good to go. You're going to change the world
with that one. You're going to make it strong again. Also, if you want to represent,
we got some shirts for you. Go to joccostore.com. This where you can get this little
equals freedom. Let's share it with joccos. Head on it that I made with the word good.
You got to get a shirt with echoes head on it. The joccomi. Yeah. Which have been
that now captured in the wild people representing. Yes, that would those. That made me feel
really, really good. Really. Oh, so you kind of got off on that. That was like really cool.
We're like, oh, I got fans. No, it was. Of course, well, there's that. But in this way, for someone
to represent that hardcore. That's where that shirt. Because it's a cool design. Yeah, like it. And then,
you know, for them. That was a little, everyone seems really helpful at my direction because I
designed it. Everyone seemed real happy with them saying the whole group. Yeah. There's some layers
on that shirt. Yeah, massive. Multiple layers. No, the last time. Some cool stuff on there. We got some
hoodies on there. Yeah, if you want to represent, go to joclstore.com some good stuff on there for
everybody by the way. Yeah. And also subscribe to the podcast this podcast for sure.
iTunes, whatever you get podcasts. You know that. Also the warrior kid podcast. Take a listen to it.
All ages take a listen to it. Definitely kids Dave Burke. He's saying he just got that.
The warrior kid podcast on repeat. For his guilty. Yeah, good deal. He's got that. He's got the warrior
kid podcast on repeat for his kids. I talked to so many people when we got roll call,
mustard. They're like, yeah, we're going. We just got it 24, 7 kids in the car. We're listening to
warrior kid podcast. The lessons that you want to teach your kid that your kid doesn't really want
to hear from you because you're their mom. You're their dad. They don't want to hear it from you.
They want to hear it from Uncle Jake. They want to hear it from Uncle Jake. And I'd go so far as to say,
don't even, you know, you said you can't just say, I'm going to take extreme ownership of that. What
you can't do with your kids is turn around when you're in the car and say, you see Uncle Jake
seeing the same thing I told you. Yeah, don't do that. Don't don't don't discredit Uncle Jake.
And you're not really discrediting him. But what you're doing is
you're bringing your, you're forming a team, right? You're forming a team. It's us against you.
And when Uncle Jake's talking to kid down the same team, yeah, Uncle Jake is in the game with the
kids, the kids, you have a natural friction with your parents. If you take Uncle Jake's side
strongly, now you're on Uncle Jowt, you against your kids against you. You don't want that.
You should almost play reverse psychology. Yeah. And be like, well, you know, it's a little
extreme for Uncle Jake to want to work out that much. And your kid be like, well,
I think we should probably let's know Uncle Jake. Dad. Maybe maybe we should get a pull up bar.
By the way, get a pull up bar for your kids. Just get a pull up bar form. You
doesn't cost much cost 12 bucks. You just need to piece a pipe. And you just, you just put it
hang it somewhere for your kids. They can do pull ups. Pull ups are important for children. Straight
up. There's some fact about no kid that can do a pull up is obese in the whole world. You can't
be obese and do a pull up as a kid. So let's do some pull ups. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like a good way too
for the don't don't be like, I'm going to put this on and you're going to listen. Oh yeah,
don't do that. Like it. Yeah. You want the kids you want. It's like when you go through military boot camp,
the drill instructors are real mean because they want you to form a gang against them. That's
part of the psychologists. They want it to be us against them. So we form up into a pull tune and
we're against this guy and then the end all comes together. Same thing we're going here. We,
you don't you want to let Uncle Jake be part of their team. And you just, oh man, well,
this stuff Uncle Jake says man, he seems like a pretty intense guy. And actually Uncle
Jake isn't that intense on the warrior kid podcast. No. He's telling stories about being a kid.
He's answering questions about being a kid. Yeah. podcast is soft. I mean not softer, but like
he's not is he's more intense in the book. For sure. He's more intense in the book. Yeah.
Yeah. We can up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah. There you go. Also,
the also get your warrior kid soap, which Irish folks were ants, aiden's up there, making soap on his
farm so that you can stay clean. 13 year old businessman getting after it. YouTube,
we are stepping up YouTube videos confirmed confirmed confirmed. You may have seen some of
little shorter, a little bit more tight. Yeah. Right and tight. We liked that.
So go to YouTube, subscribe to that and you can see echoes legit longer videos too. Echo has skills.
This is a known fact. Psychological warfare, little album with tracks to help you get through
those moments of weakness. There's a new one being made. We're working on it. If you got any
recommendations or any suggestions or anything you need from psychological warfare,
some moment of weakness that you have, we got a request for shopping an impulsive shopper.
We're going to put a damper on that, straight up, shut that down. Other things, smoking,
we're going to shut that down. Yeah. So if you got any suggestions for that, then you can make
that happen. That's available anywhere you can buy MP3s. Yeah. Very, 100% success rate. Also,
speaking of moments of weakness like if you don't want to go to the gym, get stuff,
gym stuff, work out equipment for your house. This is where you get them on it.com. Get
all the kettlebells, rings, battle ropes. You can get a mason of club. Do that.
But you're going to good work out. Anyway, makes it way easier to stay on the path.
Why it goes with face at driving to the gym is not that cool. And if you're feeling lazy
or your time is pressuring like time constraints, but I just stay home. Get a workout hard one
too. That's where I get my hands from. You know, yeah, on it.com slash jockel. That's a spot to go
100%. Also, jockel white tea. That's it. I'm like almost like it was going to have some music.
Jockel white tea. Well, and there's a day caught in me in that too. Sure. It tastes good. We
know that. It's tasting good as part of the functionality I get. But like white tea kind of sounds
kind of light and like, Dane. Oh, I see something. It's like a black coffee. You know, and you
could not have known that coffee. Get some power. I was telling life. I've never had a sip of coffee
in my whole life. I thought you said you didn't like the taste. Okay. Well, I should have clarified
that. You don't like the smell. So I didn't put it to my lips. No, really. All right, hey man, fair enough.
I dig it. Jockel white tea. My wife's mom, a Brit. Sure. Like my wife's a Brit. My wife's mom is
even more brainstrike because this is old. Oh, yeah. She guess what she drinks because you know,
you know, British people, they don't even play around with tea. They don't even play around with
tea. That's part of the deal part of the life. Guess what kind of tea she drinks? Jockel white. Yeah.
So I was she did that. We're sending shipments of Jockel white tea to England. So she
believed the the the the the damn world global home of tea. Yeah. They're the we're having to
ship it because you but your thing was always the cold the iced tea. No, I have the one tea. So you
I mean, as far as like before you made Jockel white tea, you I'd always see drinking the cold one.
Most most the time I prefer cold because most of the time I'm in a situation where I am
hot and I need to cool down. Sometimes I'm in a situation where I'm cool and I need to warm up.
When I want to sell them. Yeah, when you're cold, you want to be cozy. No, you're so good.
Better back off. But I'm saying Brits, they don't dig the cold iced tea. That's why.
Well, you know what's nice is like before you have to talk a lot. Sure. You can drink some
white tea for the throat. Just like relax the throat and yet at the same time you're getting a little
caffeine hitter. Give a little caffeine hitter with some antioxidants and not to mention if there's any vehicles
you need to pick up. You got an 8,000 pound deadlift to be good to go guarantee. Whatever you need.
Yeah, it's good. I saw the Yovon the other day and he was he posted something on Instagram. He had a
chick filet hitter. So those of you that are wondering about my hitter reference. Yes,
Theo Vaughn thank you. You have brought that word into my vocabulary and I had a little
jocquite hitter. I also have been using the term to describe one scoop of milk.
It was just that's just a one is a one scoop hitter. Good. Because because two scoops legitimately
fills you up, you don't want to eat a meal. Yeah. No, you don't want to. Or you you hate like a
little decent meal, but you still want something a dessert. Two two scoops. And you're just
that's too much. Too much. You have a little one scoop hitter. Easy one. And you're good to go. Good to go.
And if you try the strawberry kids. Strawberry kids more because ridiculously tasty.
Yeah, you're on to something. Yeah, check.
And some books. Oh yeah. Got some books. Got quite a few books actually. Way the warrior kid.
Mark's mission already talked about that a little bit. You want your kids on the path to
impolips studying memorizing, getting smarter, getting better. This is not,
this is not, hey, I think this will happen. This is at this point. Same thing. I know this will happen.
I know this will happen. Your kids will want a pull-up bar. Your kids will want a new
jiu-jitsu. Your kids will want a study for school. Study for school. What kid wants a study for school?
Warrior kids. Yeah. Warrior kid. The first book is called the way the warrior kid. The second book is
called Mark's mission. Learn about life. Next book, Discipline. It was freedom. Field manual.
I forgot to say this recently. If you want the audio version of that, it's on iTunes, MP3s,
whatever, Amazon play, Google, music, whatever. It's on all those. And that will, that's where you get the
audio version. I recommend the book is not normal. It's not a normal book. So get that book,
read a page a day. Read a page a day for a year. See what that does to your life. I'm going to
I'll make an assessment. You, your life will get better. Is that a bold statement? Maybe. But let me tell
you, give it a try. Give it a try. Extreme ownership. Interestingly, extreme ownership. Number five
on the Wall Street Journal, best seller list. It wasn't number one New York Times best seller.
That list rotates or whatever. Wall Street Journal. Number five on that. Number 13 on Amazon.
Most red books of all books on Amazon. There's millions of books on the win the world.
It's number 13. We got. So extreme ownership. Leadership book. Experiences from combat
applied to your business and your life today. The follow up to that book that I caught in
a leadership also a New York Times best seller. Number 19 on Amazon of all books read. That's crazy.
Number one Wall Street Journal best seller in business right now. Why is this?
Because of you all supporting. So thank you for supporting those books.
And the feedback has been awesome on both books and definitely appreciate that feedback.
And then coming soon. Mike, you in the dragons. It's coming out on jockel publishing. Like I said,
if we can make looms. If we can weave material, we can print some books. And that's what we're doing.
And it means it's us against the big dogs against the big Polish and companies. So need a little
bit of get some for this one. Gonna try and crush them. Why? Because that's what we do over here.
Hey, story of a little boy that's scared of everything. And learn through the reading of a story
inside that story of how another little boy a little prince overcomes his fears. How to face
his dragons because of course we all have dragons to fight. Mike in the dragons is available
for pre-order right now on Amazon comes out middle of November.
Ashton front leadership consultancy. We will help your team solve whatever problems that they have
through leadership. No matter what that problem is, it's a leadership problem.
It's me, Lake Babin, J.P. Nell, Dave Burke, Flynn, Cochran, Mike Surelli and Mike Bahama.
Email us info at echelonfront.com or check out the website if you need that kind of help at your business.
I already talked about the mustard. It's been sold out. The next mustard is 0708.
We're looking at Denver and Chicago so you're on notice to set that up. And of course,
EF Overwatch connecting special operations leaders and combat aviation leaders,
experience leaders, tested leaders, combat proven leaders with companies in the civilian sector.
That need experienced proven leaders go to ef overwatch.com to get in that game.
And if you want to roll with us virtually, you can find us on the inner webs
on Twitter, on Instagram and on that.
Echo is at echelotells and I am at J.O. Willink and thanks to everyone for listening.
Especially our military police, law enforcement firefighters, paramedics, EMTs,
Border Patrol, correctional officers and all first responders,
thanks for making this podcast and our way of life possible by keeping us safe from evil
and misfortune of the world and to every one else. When you face those hardships and challenges
that are coming your way and they are coming your way, don't get push back on your heels. Don't
ask yourself why me ask yourself what am I going to do about it and then go get after it.
Until next time, this is Echo and Jocco out.